[MUSIC]
Welcome to introduction to Kubernetes.
After watching this video you
will be able define Kubernetes,
explain what Kubernetes is not,
relate Kubernetes concepts,
describe Kubernetes capabilities and
describe the Kubernetes ecosystem.
The official Kubernetes documentation
describes Kubernetes as
an open-source system for
automating, deployment,
scaling and
management of containerized applications.
Kubernetes is widely available and
has positioned itself as the de facto
choice for container orchestration.
Kubernetes is an open-source
containerization
orchestration platform developed
as a project by Google and
is currently maintained by
the Cloud Native Computing Foundation.
It is easily portable across clouds and
on premises.
With its growing ecosystem of projects and
products by both member and non-member
partners, Kubernetes is recognized as the
go to container orchestration solution.
Kubernetes as a service grew as
an extension of containers as a service.
Kubernetes facilitates declarative
management in which it automatically
performs the necessary operations
towards achieving the called for state.
Here's what Kubernetes is not,
it is not a traditional all
inclusive platform as a service.
It is not rigid or opinionated, but
more of a flexible model that supports
an extremely diverse variety of workloads,
including stateless, stateful and
data processing workloads.
It can work with all applications
that can be containerized,
it does not provide continuous integration
continuous delivery pipelines to
build applications or deploy source code,
it does not prescribe logging,
monitoring and alerting solutions.
Organizations are free to select and
integrate third party and open-source
tools, and it does not provide built in
middleware databases or other services.
Let's check out some Kubernetes concepts.
Concepts of Kubernetes include
the following, pods represent the smallest
deployable compute object and the higher
level abstractions to run workloads,
services expose applications
running on sets of pods.
Each pod is assigned a unique IP address
and sets of pods have a single DNS name.
Kubernetes supports both persistent and
temporary storage for pods.
Configuration, which refers to
the provisioning of resources for
configuring pods.
Security measures for cloud-native
workloads, which enforce security for
pod and API access.
Policies for groups of resources,
ensuring that pods match to nodes so
that the kubelet can find them and
run the pods.
Scheduling and eviction that runs and
proactively terminates one or
more pods on resource starved Nodes.
Preemption, which is all
about prioritization.
Preemption terminates
lower priority Pods so
that pods with higher priority
can schedule and run on Nodes.
And finally, cluster administration
provides the details necessary to
create or administer a cluster.
Kubernetes capabilities include, automated
rollouts of changes to application or
configuration.
Health monitoring and rolling back
changes, storage orchestration that mounts
a chosen storage system including local
storage, network storage or public cloud,
and horizontal scaling of workloads
based on metrics or via commands.
Additional capabilities
include the following,
automated bin packing that
increases utilization and
cost saving using a mix of critical and
best-effort workloads.
Automated bin packing performs
container auto placement based on
resource requirements and conditions
without sacrificing high availability.
Kubernetes includes secret and
configuration management of sensitive
information including passwords,
OAuth tokens, and SSH keys,
and handles deployments and
updates to secrets and configuration
without rebuilding images and
Kubernetes assigns both IPv4 and
IPv6 addresses to Pods and services.
Kubernetes manages batch and continuous
integration workloads and automatically
replaces failed containers, it self heals
failing or unresponsive containers.
It discovers pods using IP addresses or
a DNS name and load balances traffic for
better performance and
high availability, and
Kubernetes adds features to your
cluster without modifying source code.
The Kubernetes ecosystem is a large,
rapidly growing ecosystem where its
services, support, and
tools that are widely available.
Running containerized applications
require separate tools.
In addition to the Kubernetes
orchestration tool, the ecosystem includes
services like building container images,
storing images in a container registry,
application logging and monitoring,
and CI/CD capabilities.
The Kubernetes ecosystem is a huge
collection of products, services, and
providers.
Leading public cloud providers
include Prisma, IBM, Google, and AWS.
Open source framework providers
include Red Hat, VMware, SUS,
Mesosphere, Docker, and Cloud Foundry.
Management providers include
Digital Ocean, loodse, SUPERGIANT,
CloudSoft, turbonomic,
Techtonic, and Weaverworks.
Tool providers include JFrog, Univa,
Aspen Mesh, Bitnami, and Cloud 66.
Monitoring and logging providers
include sumologic, DATADOG,
New Relic, iguazio, Grafana SignalFX,
sysdig, and Dynatrace.
Security providers include GUARDCORE,
BLACKDUCK,
yubico, cilium, aqua,
TwistLock, and Alcide and
load balancing providers include
AVI networks, VMware, and NGiNX.
In this video you learned that
Kubernetes is a highly portable,
horizontally scalable open-source
container orchestration system with
automated deployment and
simplified management capabilities.
Its concepts include Pods and
workloads services, storage configuration,
security policies, scheduling and
eviction, preemption, and administration.
You also learned that Kubernetes
capabilities include automated rollouts
and rollbacks, storage orchestration,
horizontal scaling,
automated bin packing, secret and
configuration management.
IPv4/IPv6 dual stack support,
batch execution, self-healing,
service discovery and load balancing and
finally, designed for extensibility.
And the Kubernetes ecosystem includes
public cloud providers, frameworks,
management, tools, monitoring and
logging, security, and load balancing.
[MUSIC]